hello everyone Simon here talking more
magic the gathering nonsense with the
official release of magic origins just
days away it really got me thinking
what's the deal with this lore heavy
corset anyway well wizards of the coast
forward-thinking as they tend to be has
laid out what they're trying to
accomplish with this Laura set the magic
story team obviously loves the lore of
the game it's a fantastic world which is
developed over a long time that being
said until recently I don't feel like a
majority of the players even realized
the card game had a story as it's hard
MTG will always be about the cards and
the game itself but there was a whole
element that people were just missing
out on and that was the story so
basically the team over at Wizards is
really pushing to get the story out
there they want as many people as
possible to know that the cards are
playing that friday that magic isn't
just a piece of cardboard it's a piece
of cardboard of a character which has
hopes dreams motivations and fears well
basically they just want players to know
about the story ok the team name golf
three pillars of their new storytelling
model which is designed to make the law
of the game more meaningful to the avid
player the first pillar is that the
story should be accessible which makes
sense no one cares about a story they
can't even find they hope to accomplish
this by incorporating more key story
moments in the actual artwork of cards
remember the amazing artwork of crux of
fate in fate reforged yeah so it'll be
like that they want the average player
to open a pack and be like wow I wonder
what's going on in this card it looks
important just like crux of fate showed
the dynamic fight between Coogan and
Nicol bolas the story team wants cards
in the future to display important story
elements and not just individual figures
we can already see from the artwork and
magic origins that they've succeeded in
that regard and if they continue that
kind of work in the future it's sure to
get a lot of people's attention besides
telling the story through the cards the
team also wants to increase the number
of venues in which the lore is told
through the more venues the story is
told through the more likely people will
be able to hear it this
along with the second pillar the story
should be aligned Wizards wants their
stories to be told through multiple
different outlets but needs all those
outlets to share the same lure in the
past there have been a number of
confusing story mix-up which have
occurred most of which just gave
inaccurate information or were flat-out
wrong this can of course cause a problem
in the community if you can't be
confident in the accuracy of the source
even if it's from Wizards itself why
would you invest your time in the story
they want anyone who finds anything on
the story of magic to be able to relate
that story to the whole of what's going
on right now one of the best places to
get the law of the game outside of the
actual game products is from the
uncharted realm articles if you're not
familiar uncharted realms regularly
posts new articles pertaining to the
narrative story of magic the gathering
it's where I get a majority of my
information and the articles are just
amazingly written anyone interested in
the story should really check it out
I'll leave a link in the description of
course reading isn't for everyone for
those who don't like the text-based
lower experience you can always check
out the gameplay from magic tools
origins this is of course Wizards video
game version of the card game but it
includes a lots of story elements as you
play the game you'll slowly understand
the stories involved in you'll be having
fun at the same time there is another
option for those seeking the story of
magic the gathering and that's your
friendly YouTube channels now I don't
want to toot my own horn but I basically
founded this channel on the lure of
magic I mean it's in my name but besides
my channel there are others out there
who cover the game storyline like the
mana source and a magic show although
they don't duel or as often as my
channel we all bring the story to the
community which i believe is really
helping to get the story out there
wizards last pillar is that the story
should be relevant and this has to do
with the writing of the story itself in
the past many have complained that the
story of magic had been poorly written
the world was amazing but the characters
were basically walking cliches or
depthless shadows they worked hard
recently and updating the back stories
of some of our favorite planeswalkers
and and all i really think they've
brought depth to the characters now i'm
not an expert writer in the least so i
can't really comment on this but i do
feel like this team of writers have the
talent to make characters and stories we
truly care about all these fellers come
together to hopefully make a world in
which the story of Magic the Gathering
is at the front most of people's minds
when a new expansion comes out I want
everyone to feel like it's a new episode
of their favorite TV show I want people
to wonder about characters and their
motivations I want to love some and hate
others I also want the story to be
dynamic with my feelings towards
characters evolving as the characters
themselves do and all I really feel like
the story is headed towards a good place
and since i started my channel on this
kind of stuff i'm obviously excited
wizards wants more venues to tell their
story sue well i'm right here guys me
and others in the MTG youtube community
are bringing it to the fans every day I
trust you guys to keep putting out
amazing lore just as you may see me as a
means of getting it out there I hope to
keep covering magical or even up to the
eventual Magic the Gathering movie
trilogy I know the goal is to get people
aware of the story that's what magic
origins was all about and I'm happy to
be a part of it and that's all I wanted
to say on the changes to the
storytelling and magic gathering guys if
you enjoyed the video please give a like
share and subscribe to the channel
really goes a long way in supporting
future content as always guys thank you
so much for watching and I'll see you
next time
Oh
you